# Follow up asynchronous communication and planning: 18 January 2022 

## Timeline and action points

- Turing Team: 
  - Develop the format, questions and materials required for the 1:1 meeting with the Crick PIs (UX plan) before 15 January 2022.  
  - Integrate suggestions described in this document across two masterclasses (Please note that the masterclass now listed as the second masterclass is currently being developed which will be shared on GitHub)
- Crick and Turing Teams: To arrange 1:1 or focus group with the Crick PIs (potential target audience)  between 15 January 2022 - 22 February 2022 to explore challenges, concerns and understanding of best practices in data science from their fields, which can be integrated into the training courses. (James F. to coordinate from the Crick team)
- Crick Team:  Provide more details on the suggested specialist topics/areas from PI’s preferably by 20 January 2022. This will be crucial in deciding the location for these topics between the two proposed masterclasses. Please let the Turing Team know if more time might be required.
- Turing Team: To continue developing and refining two masterclasses in line with the details above, apply examples from the Turing and Crick (look for these examples in the UX process). To ensure iterative and collaborative development, as well as sustainability of two masterclasses, the materials will be shared via a GitHub repository using The Carpentries training format (under CC-BY 4.0 license):
- Crick and Turing Teams: Turing Team to share the first draft of the one masterclass by 10 February for comments, suggestions and co-development on GitHub with the Crick Team by 25 February 2022.
- Crick and Turing Teams: Turing Team to share the draft of the second masterclass by 10 March for comments, suggestions and co-development on GitHub with the Crick Team by 25 March 2022.

- **Project finishes and launches on 31 March 2022.**


## Response from the Crick team addressing Action 1 & 2 from the previous meeting

- ACTION 1. Crick and Turing Teams: To arrange 1:1 or focus groups with the Crick PIs (potential target audience) between 15 January 2022 - 22 February 2022 to explore challenges, concerns and understanding of best practices in data science from their fields, which can be integrated into the training courses. (James F. to coordinate from the Crick team)
  - Shared a list of Crick researchers that could be consulted. They are in order in terms of those involved in data science strategy/training discussions/Turing engagement. They have been informed that the Turing may be in touch. Amy Strange (in copy) would also be keen discussions should diaries allow. [PERSONAL DATA REMOVED]

- ACTION 2: Crick Team: Provide more details on the suggested specialist topics/areas from PI’s preferably by 20 January 2022. This will be crucial in deciding the location for these topics between the two proposed masterclasses. 

### Overview Masterclasses

1. Foundational: Introduction to machine learning, Deep Learning, AI including: 

* Include a hook to address ‘why does this apply to me?’
* Include examples of future directions: breakthrough technology and applications
* Intro to different algorithm types and how to choose what to use
* Splitting datasets appropriately and avoiding leakage. 
* Problem of imbalanced data sets and of overfitting
* Statistics to evaluate output (precision-recall etc)
* Pointers to where to start with different approaches
* Guide to common tools - perhaps this will be covered in the above sections, but a guide to available commonly used tools would be helpful. 

2. Specific/specialist topics

* Genomics: Single cell genomic analyses (scRNAseq, scATACseq, spatial transcriptomics); 
* Genomics: Cancer genomics 
* Imaging: Biological image analysis (ML for segmentation, tracking, registration, classification, de-noising). 
* AlphaFold, protein folding- structural biology/protein-protein interaction

3. Managing open and reproducible computational projects: challenges and benefits (reproducibility, collaboration, open tools, version control and importance in grants, peer review, academic incentives)

The underlying theme for all this is how to make computational projects transparent, reproducible etc. As well as to provide thorough grounding in critical thinking and causal reasoning around data literacy might be a necessary prerequisite? The goal would be a framework for a GL to feel more confident supervising a computational biologist. This course could include: 

* Organising a project: Practical directory and file structures for comp projects
* Metadata, metadata use with relevant examples to the Crick (e.g. genomics and imaging)
* Intro to Github and importance of version control
* Intro to markdown and Jupyter notebook

## Notes from catch up meeting with Alisha/Malvika/Fede

-   Need to create format and questionnaire for the 1:1 feedback meetings
-   Specialist topic will be integrated in the two masterclass as examples - however the Turing team will not be developing training materials on these specialises topics (out of scope for this project)
-   Getting feedback on the materials
    -   Pre-meeting survey for feedback
    -   Question to ask during the meeting
    -   Actionable feedback (clear idea of what the focus is)
  
### Next steps for the development team
-   Send and block dates to the people who will be involved in the 1:1 feedback
-   Consider Illustration ideas and give options to people engaing in the feedback to process to contribute
-   how to make sure that people actually follow both the meatrials and not just one?
    -   Login and work through both bit (certificate system to put a criteria)
